The Beehive
===========
Pastorius' notebook was called the "Beehive" after the classical model of extracting from books, as a bee takes pollen from flowers to make honey. More than the [classical writers like Seneca he references](https://github.com/bspalmieri/Quakerville/blob/master/commonplaces.md), Pastorius considered the social, communal nature of the bee. 

Pastorius' last will and testament describes the Beehive as an open-access, open-ended repository of knowledge, meant for the use of the local community. He wrote in his notebook: "Odit ut expertes Liber hic, Sic odit inertes: As this book hates those who do not take part, thus it hates idlers."  Consequently the Beehive offers clear, friendly instructions aimed at readers so that they can add to the book. 

Over 300 years later, the book still 'works' through an index system combining numbered entries with keywords. While and undergraduate at the University of Pennsylvania, I was involved with producing high resolution scans of the book, which can be [found here](http://dla.library.upenn.edu/dla/medren/pageturn.html?q=beehive&id=MEDREN_2487547&). They're not enough: in its current format the Beehive is only useful if you know what you're looking for. I propose to transcribe and digitise the Beehive's indexes, linking each of its keywords with their entries using XML. Only after the digital format works in the same (but faster) way of the original, can we imagine what a full transcription would look like. 

While Pastorius could recall the intellectual life he had left behind in Europe, he couldn't recreate it for three main reasons. First, there was quite simply a scarcity of books. Second, there was a language barrier: Pastorius had to learn English when he arrived in 1683. Third, there were no institutions to supplement his library or his learning. The Beehive records his best attempts to overcome these problems - and in the process the book itself becomes a library and key to the linguistic diversity of the early colonies.